# SQL_Public_Health_data

###PROCESS
When executing the code there were certain complications with setting up the data. We used the country and year columns as primary keys. From there we added the information in the dataset by year per dataset. We then used the update duplicate key to update to the current version of that dataset if a changed were needed. This also allowed us to run the entire code without worrying about creating too many duplicates as we were working with a lot of data and various datasets. We needed to change the format of the tables themselves from TEXT columns to VARCHARs to allow inserting into others and later manipulation. I search all the countries from the first table to filter the results and unioned the tables one by one in order to produce the excel file of the first table. This process was also used when I made the second table although the table already had a filter of the countries we wanted, the duplicate update queries helped keep the data cleaned.

###FIRST TABLE FINDINGS
When looking at the first table Cote d'Ivoire and Nigeria stand out as outliers with the large number of number of people living with known HIV status, with Nigeria being the largest at 1.9million in 2017 the most recent year of the sample, and Cote d Ivorie at 500,000 in 2007 the earliest year of the sample. There were issues with the Mother to child transmission dataset as well as the pregnant women with known status. These datasets only had information on the recent years leaving null fields throughout the data. Some interesting points when looking at the Mother to child transmission rate were Burkina Faso which had a drop of 22%  down to 12% as well as Cote d'Ivoirewhich had 24%, in 2010 down to 14%, in 2017.  Others such as Ghana do not show much change which can indicate an area which needs more attention and development.
Another interesting outlier was Benin which has over 95% of the pregnant women with known HIV status. We can see the correlation of this with a drop of 12 percent in mother to child transmission rates over the span of the sample from 29% down to 17%. This is also similar with Burkina Faso in the same trend and the inverse with Guinea with a low percentage of pregnant with known status and a higher than average percentage of mother to child transmission rate. Mauritania is an interesting outlier with a 15% known status and a 14% mother to child transmission rate . 


###SECOND TABLE FINDINGS
Looking into the second table there was a lot of missing data in regards to the unemployment rate. Since we were unable to look at the unemployment rate more attention was needed on the gdp per capita where Sierra Leone and Niger were the two highest however Nigeria surprisingly did not have available data. With its large population this would have been interesting to look at.
Percentage view Cabo Verde had the highest in the region with 0.4% percent of its population with a known hiv status. Mauritania also had the second highest at 0.0231% with the rest between .001-.003. This is  also interesting when comparing the number of deaths from those with HIV which is <100 for Cabo Verde. Although one point to make is Nigeria has the highest number of known living with HIV. This can be explained when looking at the populations of the two countries showing there are more people with Known status than there are people living in Cabo Verde. 


###POLICY RECOMMENDATIONS/PROPOSED INDICATORS
One policy recommendation is assisting with the mother to child transmission rate. Some countries have made great progress with this while just as many did not show much improvement in their numbers. This also goes hand in hand with pregnant known status which could be a bottleneck for preventing those from passing it down. This was the dataset that had the least amount of data showing it still needs to be built out further and requiring special attention and expansion as it can help scale the other efforts built from the knowledge of knowing your status. 

Some indicator recommendations would be the CPIA gender equality as we have some sex related indicators knowing the gender equality in tandem with the Human Capital Index can give insight into the quality of life for these individuals as there may be indicators in their personal lives outside of what is recorded that may be a bottleneck to greater HIV policy. Another interesting indicator could be the GINI coefficient which would measure the inequality in a country. This data is most likely inaccurate or not well built out as some of the countries in this region did not have the GDP per capita. If the data was available this can lead to further insights in a similar way as the HCI.



